hey there in this video I'll explain
everything you need to know about
kubernetes services networking I'll walk
you through a range of options and why
you might choose one versus another
depending on your needs and specific
cluster environment
we'll start with drawing the basic
networking for a couple of kubernetes
nodes
the details depend on which CNI plug-in
is being used to learn more you can
check out the other videos in this
series to understand how things fit
together across a range of different
networking options in this video I'm
using Calico as the example which
connects the parts to the host using a
pair of virtual Ethernet interfaces and
sets up the Linux kernel to act as a
simple virtual router that connects
everything together let's begin by
looking at our pods access services
using +2 IPS + 4 IP is a virtual IP
address used to represent a service view
proxy programs the Linux kernel to
intercept connections to cluster IPs and
load balance them across the pods back
in each service so for example if
service 1 is backed by pods a and C then
when pod d tries to connect to the
services cluster IP the connection is
intercepted and using a technique called
mapped network address translation the
destination IP is changed from the
cluster IP to the chosen backing pods IP
address importantly the source IP
address is not changed so pod a sees pod
D as the source of the connection and
any network policies they apply to pot a
behave exactly as expected the return
traffic associated with connection gets
the nat reversed on its way back so the
client part is unaware any of this
happened
next let's look at the most basic way to
connect to a service from outside the
cluster service type note port anode
port is a port reserved on every node in
the cluster to represent a service key
proxy program the Linux kernel to
intercept connections to node ports and
load balance them across the pods back
in each service so for example if an
external client connects to a node port
on any of the nodes in the cluster the
connection is intercepted and the
destination is noted from the node IP
and node port to the chosen backing pot
IP and service port
but if only the destination was matted
they return packets from port on other
nodes would go directly back to the
client which wouldn't know what to do
with the packets because they aren't
coming from the node and they probably
thought it was connecting to so to avoid
this issue no ports also nabbed the
source IP address changing the client IP
to the nodes IP
[Music]
as a result the return traffic is routed
back to the original mode where the NAT
can be reversed before returning to the
client
on downside of this approach is that
Cuba net is now where policy applied to
the backing pot cannot limit access to
specific external clients because the
client IP is obscured by the net if you
are a calico user then you could apply
calico network policy to the nodes
themselves to limit access to locals if
you add a strong requirement to do so
another way of accessing services from
outside the cluster is to advertise
service IP addresses using BGP this
requires an underlying network that is
BGP capable which typically means an
on-prem deployment with standard
top-of-rack routers karekare supports
advertising cluster IPS or external IPS
for services configured with one if you
are not using calico then metal lb
provides similar capabilities that work
with a variety of different network
plugins with the simplest form of
service IP advertisement calico
advertisers the entire cost IP address
range from every node in the cluster
just like with no pause cue proxy
intercepts external connections to
cluster ip's knotting them to backing
ports including changing the source IP
address with the same implications for
kubernetes network policy the return
traffic is routed back to the original
node where the NAT is reversed before
returning to the client
this routing behavior can be changed by
setting the services external traffic
policy to local in this case calico will
advertise the individual cluster IP from
any node hosting a backing part of the
service and queue proxy load balances to
local pots only in addition to reducing
the maximum number of Network hops the
source IP of the client is preserved so
you can use kubernetes network policy to
limit access to specific external
clients if desired it's worth noting
that when using external traffic policy
local the evenness of the load balancing
becomes node and network topology
dependent for example if we add a second
backing pot to know well then our works
still load balancers traffic equally
across the two notes which in turn means
that the two pods on node one each
receive half as much traffic as the pot
on node two in many cases you can use
pot and tea affinity rules to ensure
even distribution of backing pods across
your topology but this does add some
complexity to deploying the service
another alternative to consider whether
you're using node course or service IP
advertisement is to use calicos EBP F
data plane which includes a native
service handling without the need to run
queue proxy this preserves source IP to
simplify network policy and uses dsr
direct 0 return to reduce the number of
now we're cops for returned traffic it
provides even load balancing independent
of topology with reduced CPU and latency
compared to queue proxy the final
service type I'll cover in this video is
load balancer which dynamically
allocates an external IP for the service
on a network load balancer outside the
cluster the exact type of network load
balancer depends on your cloud provider
in our globe balancer then distributes
connections across the nodes using the
services node port most node load
balancers preserve the client source IP
address but because the traffic still
goes by our node port by default the
backing pods themselves do not see the
client IP unless using an alternative to
queue proxy that preserves the source IP
such as Calico ebps native service
handling as with service IP
advertisement this behavior can be
changed by setting the services external
traffic policy to local now where globe
balances that support this option will
only load balance two nodes hosting
backing pods for the service when queue
proxy will only load balance to local
pods on that note preserving the client
source IP all the way to the banking pot
but the cost of potentially uneven lake
balancing that's all for now be sure to
check out the next video in this series
which covers kubernetes ingress building
on top of kubernetes services to provide
access to services from outside of the
cluster using application layer load
balancing I hope you've found this video
useful and thanks for watching
you